# Thesis-project-2023: The acquisition of coda consonants in English 
This thesis investigates the early coda production of an English-speaking child A. The study compares two influential frameworks in child language acquisition: Universal Grammar (UG) and the Specific Language Hypothesis (SLGH). While Universal Grammar predicts developmental patterns based on innate knowledge in language acquisition, the Specific Language Grammar Hypothesis proposes that the frequency patterns in specific languages mainly guide language acquisition. The two theoretical accounts make different predictions for the development of coda consonants, creating an exciting topic of study. Data analysis in this thesis reveals that while child A's productions align with projections posited by Universal Grammar, it also suggests an influence from the distribution of coda consonants in English. By combining Universal Grammar and the Specific Language Grammar Hypothesis, this research found that Frequency-Based Hypothesis contributes to a more comprehensive understanding of child language acquisition. It provides valuable insights into the intricate processes involved. 

The speech data of Child A was downloaded from the Providence Corpus on Phonbank.org, available at https://phonbank.talkbank.org/access/Eng-NA/Providence.html. The Providence Corpus is a naturalistic child speech corpus compiled by Katherine Demuth and her assistants at Brown University (McWhinney, 1995). The corpus provides longitudinal recordings of six monolingual English-speaking children and is designed for research investigating child phonological and morphological development. For this study, the data of child A was used. The recordings were conducted within a naturalistic setting, capturing spontaneous interactions between the child and their parents. Participant A's recordings were initiated at 1;04.28 and continued until 3;05.16. Sessions were held biweekly and lasted for an hour each. For this paper, the corpus from Child A, spanning the period of 1;5.12 to 3;5.16, was selected for analysis. The data used can be found with the following link to googlesheet. 

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1G0jrPORifNqJrx7-F-It6gtY15gQ_QLo7rDL0oC-gaA/edit?usp=sharing
